.TH BIM 1
.SH NAME
bim \- Beautiful Input Manipulator, or Bad IMitation of vi; a code editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bim
[options] [file...]
.br
.B bim
[options] \-\- \-
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Bim
is a text editor meant for writing code, with support for syntax highlighting.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 18
\-R
Open initial file as read-only.
.TP
\-c
Print file to standard output with syntax highlighting.
.TP
\-C
Print file to standard output with syntax highlighting and line numbers.
.TP
\-u \fIpath\fR
Use \fIpath\fR as the bimrc, rather than ~/.bimrc.
.TP
\-S \fIsyntax\fR
Highlight code using \fIsyntax\fR if no highlighter can not be detected.
.TP
\-O noaltscreen
Disable the use of the alternate screen buffer terminal functionality.
.TP
\-O noscroll
Disable the use of terminal scrolling.
.TP
\-O nomouse
Disable mouse support.
.TP
\-O nounicode
Do not output UTF-8; restricts the editor to ASCII output.
.TP
\-O nobright
Disable the use of bright colors in themes which support this option.
.TP
\-O nohideshow
Disable the use of the DEC hide/show cursor escape sequences.
.TP
\-O nosyntax
Disable syntax highlighting.
.TP
\-O nohistory
Disable editor undo/redo history.
.TP
\-O notitle
Do not set or update the terminal title.
.TP
\-O nobce
Do not assume the terminal supports "background color erase" functionality (eg., old
.B tmux
versions)
.TP
\-\-version
Display version, build, and plugin information.
.TP
\-\-help
Display help text.
.TP
\-\-dump\-mappings
Write a Markdown description of the configured keybindings to standard output.
.TP
\-\-dump\-commands
Write a Markdown description of available editor commands to standard output.
.TP
\-\-html \fIfile\fR
Using the configured syntax highlighting, convert \fIfile\fR to an HTML document and write it to standard output.
See also the
.B :tohtml
editor command.
.TP
\-\-dump\-config
Write a bimrc describing the configured key bindings to standard output.
.SH FILES
.TP 18
~/.bimrc
Configuration script read on startup.
.TP
/usr/share/bim/themes
Recommended location to install theme files.
.SH SEE ALSO
kak(1), vim(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.B Bim
was written by
.B K. Lange
primarily for use with
.B ToaruOS.
.SH BUGS
Plenty.
